649 F.2d 646

DART INDUSTRIES COMPANY, INC., Movant-Appellee,
v.
WESTWOOD CHEMICAL COMPANY, INC., Respondent-Appellee.

Nos. 77-3880, 78-1525.

United States Court of Appeals,

Ninth Circuit.

April 2, 1980.

Arthur I. Winard, New York City, Lon M. Mickelson, Los Angeles, Cal.,
on briefs, for movant-appellee.

John G. Wigmore, Lawler, Felix & Hall, Los Angeles, Cal., on briefs,
for respondent-appellee.

Appeal from the United States District Court for the Central District
of California.

Before WALLACE and ANDERSON, Circuit Judges, and PALMIERI,* District
Judge.  PALMIERI, District Judge:

This is an appeal from the entry of an order quashing a subpoena
duces tecum and denying any further discovery against appellee.
The basic question presented on appeal is whether the district court
abused its discretion by denying discovery.

The present proceeding is an outgrowth of a lawsuit filed by Westwood
Chemical Company, Inc. (Westwood) against two of its former employees
in the Southern District of New York.  These employees allegedly
conspired with Synthetic Products Company (Synthetic), a division of
Dart Industries Company, Inc. (Dart), as well as Dart, to terminate a
sales agency agreement that had been in force for some years between
Westwood and Synthetic.  In an effort to pursue discovery ancillary to
the New York lawsuit, Westwood had a subpoena duces tecum issued from
the Central District of California to one of Dart's officers directing
him to appear for deposition upon written questions and to produce
documents.  Upon Dart's motion, the district court signed an order
quashing the subpoena and denying any further discovery against Dart.

The district court's order barring discovery is to be reviewed under an
"abuse of discretion" standard.  In Premium Service Corp. v. Sperry &
Hutchinson Co., 511 F.2d 225, 229 (9th Cir. 1975), this court affirmed
an order quashing a subpoena duces tecum and explained:

We will reverse such an order to quash only for abuse of discretion
Such abuses must be unusual and exceptional; we will not merely
substitute our judgment for that of the trial judge A judge abuses his
discretion only when his decision is based on an erroneous conclusion
of law or where the record contains no evidence on which he rationally
could have based that decision.

We conclude that the district court did not abuse its discretion in
barring discovery.

Dart was not a party to the New York lawsuit that arose from the
termination of the sales agreement with Westwood because Dart and
Westwood had entered into an agreement of general release on September
1, 1976.  Under the release, Westwood received $700,000 from Dart in
settlement of all claims under the parties' sales agency agreement,
and as satisfaction for all claims Westwood may have had resulting
from the termination of the sales agreement and the alleged conspiracy
causing the termination.

The crucial issue in the controversy before us turns on the
interpretation of the release agreement.  The release agreement
provided "that WESTWOOD releases and discharges DART INDUSTRIES
INC. and its Synthetic Products Division of any rights it has or
may hereafter have by reason of a conspiracy alleged by WESTWOOD "
(emphasis added).  Dart argues, and the district court agreed, that
Westwood released any right to engage in discovery against Dart.
Westwood contends that the agreement was designed only to release
Dart from any possible claims against Dart as a defendant, not to
bar discovery in an action against third parties.  Although each side
has sought to support its interpretation of the agreement's meaning
by affidavits of attorneys who participated in its formulation, we
have concluded that the meaning of the agreement is clear, requiring
no amplification.

Our dissenting brother disagrees with our construction of the
general release by saying "it contains much of the standard boiler
plate to live up to this advance billing" (as a general release),
adding that there is nothing in the agreement referring to Westwood's
releasing its right of discovery from Dart.  The answer to this is that
Westwood gave up far more than its right of discovery against Dart.
It gave up everything.  It released Dart from "any rights (Westwood)
has or may hereafter have by reason of a conspiracy alleged by
Westwood." (emphasis added).  Additionally, we can see no reason
to denigrate the use of boiler plate or stereotype language where,
as here, it was used appropriately.  Such language has the value of
frequent usage and general understanding.  Far from derogating from
its meaning, we believe it enhances its clarity beyond peradventure
of doubt.

What our brother seems to be saying is that because the word
"discovery" should have been used, and was not used, the agreement is
ambiguous and operates only as a partial release.  This conclusion
is nothing short of rewriting the agreement and emasculating it.
Equally unfounded is his statement that the major portion of the
$700,000 payment to Westwood "merely represents money due under
their sales agreement."  This flies in the face of the agreement
which states at the very outset:

> WESTWOOD CHEMICAL COMPANY, INC., having an address at 801 Second
> Avenue, New York, New York 10017, for and in consideration of the sum
> of SEVEN HUNDRED THOUSAND U. S. DOLLARS ($700,000.00) in hand paid by
> DART INDUSTRIES, INC., 8480 Beverly Boulevard, Los Angeles, California
> 90048, the receipt and sufficiency whereof is hereby acknowledged,

The dissent in this particular apparently relies on a choice between
conflicting partisan affidavits submitted after the agreement was
executed and the consideration paid, and when this controversy reached
the district court.  We believe that court reached a correct conclusion
on "evidence which he rationally could have based that decision."
Premium Service Corp. v. Sperry & Hutchinson Co., supra at 229.

The dissent states that important policy considerations militate
against interpreting the agreement as a general release.  While
discovery is a valuable right and should not be unnecessarily
restricted, Kyle Engineering Co. v.  Kleppe, 600 F.2d 226, 232
(9th Cir. 1979), the "necessary" restriction may be broader when
a nonparty is the target of discovery.  As one district court has
noted, "(t)here appear to be quite strong considerations indicating
that discovery would be more limited to protect third parties from
harassment, inconvenience, or disclosure of confidential documents."
Collins and Aikman Corp. v. J. P. Stevens & Co., Inc., 51 F.R.D. 219,
221 (D.S.C.1971).  One author has stated that the more appropriate
nomenclature is "nonparty" discovery, not "third-party" discovery, as
"the word nonparty serves as a constant reminder of the reasons for
the limitations that characterize 'third-party' discovery."  Getman,
R., "Federal 'Third-Party' Discovery in the Small Antitrust Case,"
45 Brooklyn L.Rev. 311 (1979).

Although the strong policy in favor of liberal discovery is clear,
Hickman v. Taylor, 329 U.S. 495, 507, 67 S.Ct. 385, 391, 91 L.Ed. 451
(1957), commentators have recognized that there is a potential for
abuse in such a policy.  One commentator has written:

> (T)he draftsmen of the federal rules held utopian notions of what
> might be gained from discovery.

Designed with the hope of eliminating the so-called sporting theory
of justice, discovery practice in many cases simply transfers the
battlefield from the courtroom to the pretrial stage.

A central justification for our exceedingly liberal discovery practice
has been that the right to discover facts and information is kept
entirely distinct from the right to use that information at trial.

This theory gives insufficient weight to the rights of privacy of the
person from whom discovery is sought and to the expense, delay, and
potential for harassment and abuse that go with unrestricted discovery.

We need an increased consciousness of the excesses and an increased
willingness either assumed voluntarily or imposed through wider use
of the discretionary powers of the court to check them.

Stanley, J., "President's Page" (Message from the President of the
American Bar Association), 62 American Bar Association Journal 1375
(November 1976).  See Also, Pollack, M., "Discovery Its Abuses
and Correction," 80 F.R.D. 219 (Remarks made at the Fifth Circuit
Conference on April 26, 1978).  The district judge did not abuse
his discretion in not invoking the policy favoring liberal discovery
to defeat an unambiguous agreement for which Dart paid substantial
consideration.

While an exception was expressly set forth in the agreement with
respect to the two former employees, none was stated with respect
to Dart.  We cannot accept Westwood's suggestion that it necessarily
agreed only to refrain from suing Dart.  Its agreement is far broader
and it cannot be equated with a covenant not to sue[1], an undertaking
that could readily have been expressed.  If indeed the cooperation of
Dart for the production of documents and the providing of testimonial
evidence was a matter of importance to Westwood in the contemplated
litigation against its ex-employees, such obligations could easily
have been spelled out and defined.[2] Having bought its peace for
$700,000, a very substantial consideration, Dart should be permitted,
as the district court ruled, to be left alone totally free of any
obligations to Westwood.

In Van Bronkhorst v. Safeco Corp., 529 F.2d 943, 950 (9th Cir. 1976),
this court stated that agreements that avoid litigation and lessen
the burden on courts are to be encouraged: "It hardly seems necessary
to point out that there is an overriding public interest in settling
and quieting litigation."  (footnote omitted).  Accord, United States
v. McInnes, 556 F.2d 436 (9th Cir.  1977).[3]  The dissent correctly
points out that the policy in favor of settlement is not an absolute.
In Vuitton et Fils, S. A. v. J. Young Enterprises, 609 F.2d 1335
(9th Cir. 1979), to which he analogizes the case before us, this court
reversed the district court's entry of a final judgment based upon the
parties' stipulated consent to an injunctive order.  The parties to
that stipulation expressly reserved defenses, provided for continued
discovery, and did not address the other remedies prayed for in the
complaint.  This court, in an opinion by the author of the dissent
here, concluded that the continuation of Vuitton's action was clearly
contemplated by the parties.  The broad language of the Dart/Westwood
general release plainly terminates any further involvement by Dart.

While it is true that traditional rules of contract interpretation
dictate that an ambiguous agreement be construed against its author[4]
in this case, Dart the agreement before us does not contain ambiguous
language.  The agreement was entered into by two sophisticated
business organizations represented by experienced counsel.  Dart is
correct in its assertion that Westwood could have negotiated the type
of release it now asserts it did negotiate a narrow release limited
solely to the release of Dart from being named as a defendant in a
conspiracy lawsuit.  Nevertheless, Westwood did not do so.

The trial judge did not abuse his discretion when he quashed the
subpoena duces tecum.

Westwood's motion under F.R.C.P. 60(b)(1), filed subsequent to the
district court's order which we have discussed, and seeking to be
relieved of that order, is treated by us as a motion for remand of the
case for its consideration, and we decline to remand. Smith v. Lujan,
588 F.2d 1304, 1307 (9th Cir. 1979); Crateo, Inc. v. Intermark, Inc.,
536 F.2d 862, 869 (9th Cir.), cert. denied, 429 U.S. 896, 97 S.Ct. 259,
50 L.Ed.2d 180 (1976).

The order of the district court is affirmed.

[*]: The Honorable Edmund L. Palmieri, Senior United States District
Judge for the Southern District of New York, sitting by designation

[1]: For a discussion of the difference between a covenant not to sue
and a general release, see Dale Hilton, Inc. v. Triangle Publications,
Inc., 198 F.Supp. 638, 639-40 (S.D.N.Y.1961).  The dissent cites the
Restatement (Second) of Contracts s. 354, Comment c (Tent. Draft
No. 13, March 1, 1978) in support of the conclusion that the
release was in reality a covenant not to sue.  The section states:
"If a literal interpretation of a writing that purports to be a
release would frustrate that purpose, the writing may be interpreted
as a contract not to sue."  The illustration given for the occasion
when such a narrow interpretation is appropriate, explains that if a
release of one of two joint debtors would release the other (who has
paid no consideration), the release will be interpreted as a contract
not to sue.  In the case before us, no such drastic consequence
will occur.  Westwood explicitly reserved its rights against the two
former employees, and only these employees.  A literal interpretation
of the general release will not release them

[2]: See our discussion of Vuitton et Fils, S. A. v. J. Young
Enterprises, 609 F.2d 1335 (9th Cir. 1979), infra, at 650

[3]: See, Lynch, E. "Settlement of Civil Cases: A View from the Bench,"
5 Litigation 8 (1978) (in which the author notes: "Our pluralistic,
complex and crowded society seems to breed lawsuits faster than
pollution.  Every lawyer and judge, and virtually everyone for that
matter, is aware that our courts are backed up with all types of
litigation.")

[4]: 4 S. Williston, Contracts s. 621 (1961 & Supp.1979)
